1. What month and year do you expect to graduate?

Dec, 2022

2. We are currently hiring for our offices in Menlo Park, Seattle, and New York. Please rank your preference for each location or indicate if you have no preference. Please note that there are very limited opportunities in New York.

1. Seattle, 2. Menlo Park, 3. New York

3. Please provide a 2-3 sentence overview of a data project (internship, school or personal project) that you previously worked on.

This summer, I was a data science intern at Google China. My task was to create a solution reflecting the market trends in the quick fashion industry. The solution should help Google's clients know trending items and make stock preparation in advance. I used a third party web crawling tool named Brandwatch to extract fashion keywords frequency on social media platforms and built a data pipeline on Google cloud to store the keywords frequency historical data. I also built a machine learning model to make predictions for future keywords trends. Finally, I made a dashboard to reflect the current trending items and its historical and future trends. The project gave a glance of fashion industry market trends and would be a good tool for clients to monitor the market and prepare for stock.

4. What (technically) was your role in the project?

I was more like a marketing data scientist. I built data pipelines, made machine learning models for prediction and built a dashboard for visualization. Besides, I also delivered my project in person to our sales team and clients.

5. What ended up being (or will hopefully be) the overall impact of the project?

My project should be a good tool for our clients to learn the market trends. For example, finding one single trending item like tiktok legging could help us generate revenue about 200k dollars.

6. What is your strongest coding language (Python or R)? If you prefer a different coding language for the interview, please let me know.

I prefer Python as the language for interviews.

7. Where would you rate your SQL skills on a scale of 1 to 10?

I rank my SQL skill as 9.

8. Do you do any kind of experimental design, hypothesis testing, A/B testing or multivariate testing?

Yes. In my internship at Google, I  validated a hypothesis that social media fashion trends were ahead of google search fashion trends. Before our team had a solution that monitored the market trends using google search data. If the hypothesis holds, we would be faster to know the trends using social media data sources. Finally, the hypothesis test showed that 41% of fashion items trends first began on social media platforms. This meant if we started to monitor social media, we would be faster to know 41% fashion trends than current solutions.

9. Are you actively interviewing, and do you have any deadlines (pending offers, etc.)?

Yes, I'm currently interviewing with Microsoft. But I don't have any deadlines now.



Next question is a Data Science Product exercise. This is a chance to get into the mindset of our data scientists as they work on FB products.

1. Let’s say we want to figure out for any Facebook (or Instagram) user, who their best friend is so we can prioritize showing their content in the News Feed. What product signals and metrics (please max at 5) would you use to determine who a user’s best friend is?

1. Number(Percentage) of common friends
2. Number(Percentage) of common groups
3. Number(Percentage) of like/comments
4. Tone of comments

2. In addition, which is the most important and why?

I think the most important thing is the number or percentage of common friends. Because this one is the most common function in Facebook. Some people may not like making comments or joining groups. But FB users all have friends. If two users share many common friends, that's a strong sign that these two users are closely related.